Hello, this will be a thread about my Lambda School experience as I complete it so as to document my experience.  

Obligatory:  www.github.com/evoingram
             www.codewars.com/users/evoingram
	     www.aquoco.co

Just started codewars like a week or so ago.  So I'm 38, have owned and operated a court transcription business for the last decade, still do, and I'm enrolled in Lambda School's full-stack web development track.  I did Geocities and all that back in the day.  I've always been interested in coding.  But my real start in coding didn't come until I needed for my company, A, a website and, B, an end-to-end workflow/production management system.  I was the only employee of my own business, so automating what I could within the rules, such as standard business operations, was important to me.  Not having the money to pay a developer, it was worth my time to learn to code, so I did, and created a website.  We are two iterations from that original page, and working on yet another one now that I've finished this unit, incorporating a bunch of the things I've learned there.  It's going to be a portfolio piece when I'm done with it.

Anyways, then I needed software, batch files, or something to help me get all these admin tasks done, like fill out endless forms with the same information over and over.  So I made a database with VBA, and it's what i use for my company's production/business management.  It does a ton of cool things, and I talk about it in my Github and on my blog, so I won't go into it here.  But then I was interested in doing more than just this database.  I thought I wanted to do coding professionally, so I did freeCodeCamp, got four certificates towards their umbrella cert.  While doing that, I found out about Lambda, talked it over with my spouse, and thought about it for a few months before deciding the structure and benefits of it would be worth it if I put the work in, and here I am, four weeks in.

The structure here has helped immensely as well as you don't know what you don't know, so that is one advantage with Lambda over self-teaching.  If this is how it is for the rest of the program, the price is more than fair.  So far, I feel very in my element, like I belong.  A lot of people here, like me, are from alternative life/education paths.  Everyone here is very enthusiastic, works very hard and actually wants to be where they are.  I am extremely grateful for this opportunity, and it will not be wasted.  This experience has made me remember how much I like learning and measurable objectives.  It is very comforting to know specifically and exactly what is required of you.  In my industry, people are frequently dealing with crises of some sort, of varying urgency, my services are frequently utilized after one side or the other is unhappy with the outcome of a court case, and it is just different, much more solemn, obviously.

The environment and my study habits have helped me excel so far in this program.  It is only unit 1, though, so we'll see.  I learned Cornell note-taking for this program, and have moderate familiarity and follow the Getting Things Done productivity model.  My study habit has been as follows: watch the required videos, take notes on paper from material provided by Lambda that I put in the OneNote notebook, highlight relevant/key parts of it, format code with NoteHighlight, and then review my written notes right before the lecture, and review the entire written notebook weekly.  So here's a picture of my OneNote notebook for Lambda: 

Pre-course work covered basic HTML, CSS, and JS.  Week 1 covered 'user interface and Git'; Git, HTML5, and moderate CSS.  This was a very productive week for me.  I learned how to use Git, and instead of having a separate repository for each project every day of the week like they taught us, I learned how to make one big repository just for Lambda and use branches and a numbering system to maintain the projects correctly.  It is not perfect, but my GitHub is moderately clean as a result, and easy for me to navigate.  I also learned more than I ever wanted to know about VS Code and Emmet through Burke Holland's Frontend Masters course on it, as a six-month sub is included in the Github Student Pack that comes with Lambda enrollment (student pack is very cool, btw; tons of cool useful things in there).  I plan to watch a lot of the videos @ FM, as what I've seen there so far has been extremely useful/helpful.  

Week 2 covered 'advanced CSS'.  Here, I learned, over and above the curriculum, about CSS animations, gradients, and shapes.  

Week 3 was 'JS fundamentals'.  During this week, I finished Wes Bos's command line power user course because I used to know absolutely ZIP about bash, and started learning Bootstrap also.  This weekend, i plan to learn how to use XD.  

11/14/2019
Week 4, this coming week, is build week, and that project encompasses everything I learned in the rest of the unit.  Very excited to put together everything I've learned to produce a real, working product.  All four tracks of the school come together into groups to make an app, each with their own things to do corresponding with their track.  Then we present on Friday.  The piece of the app you do has to meet certain requirements corresponding with what you've learned in the unit.  

In anticipation of build week, I've been learning Bootstrap because that is one of the extra credit items for build week, to use a framework.  I have a tentative design laid out and plan to learn how to use XD this weekend.  Soon, I might be able to afford a fine-tipped stylus and a glove for my touch screen so I can properly write and draw on it.  

11/16/2019
This weekend, productive was my middle name; I learned XD and used it to create a mock-up, which i uploaded to the BW repo, crafted an HTML skeleton for BW project, finished up taking notes for Unit 2, week one, caught up on JavaScript 30 projects; just finished day 5; and gave VB.NET a go.  I would like to port my database to an online app, so now I'm finally sticking my toe in the water with that.  But i also learned you can make sprites for css with Adobe Animate, which I have access to >:D.  So Animate is definitely going on my to-learn list.

11/17/2019
Got into VB on Visual Studio and just learned about ASP.net; whew that is exciting!  i can pretty much create all of my database's forms and user interface with what i just learned from Lambda in Unit 1 and with Bootstrap.  I also got LESS hooked up to it, watch compiler and all.